.TH Sequencer64 "Nov 10 2015" "Version 0.9.9.8" "Sequencer64 Manual Page"

.SH NAME
Sequencer64 - Real time MIDI sequencer refactored from Seq24

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sequencer64
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIFILENAME\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fISequencer64\fP is a real-time MIDI sequencer. It was created to
provide a simple interface for editing and playing MIDI 'loops'.
It uses gtk-2 for the user interface.

.SH OPTIONS
Sequencer64 accepts the following options, plus an optional name of
a MIDI file. Note that the legacy options, which use underscores or
are missing the option hyphen, are still unofficially supported.
.TP 8
.B  \-h, \-\-help
Display a list of all commandline options.
.TP 8
.B  \-v, \-\-version
Display the program version.
.TP 8
.B  \-l, \-\-legacy
Save the MIDI file in the old Seq24 format, as unspecified
binary data, instead of as a legal MIDI track with meta events.
Also read the configuration, if provided, from the ~/.seq24rc and ~/.seq24usr
files, instead of the new ~/.config/sequencer64/sequencer64.rc and
~/.config/sequencer64/sequencer64.usr files.  The user-interface will indicate
this mode.  This mode is also used if the application is invoked as the
\fIseq24\fP command (one can create a soft link to the sequencer64 binary to
make that happen).
.TP 8
.B \-b b, \-\-bus b
Supports modifying the buss number on all tracks when a MIDI file
is read.  All tracks are loaded with this buss-number override.  This feature
is useful for testing, making it easy to map the MIDI file onto the system's
current hardware/software synthesizer setup.
.TP 8
.B \-q p, \-\-ppqn p
Supports modifying the PPQN value of Sequencer64, which is currently hardwired
to a value of 192.  This setting should allow MIDI files to play back at the
proper speed, and be written with the new PPQN value.  This feature is STILL IN
PROGRESS, and undependable.
.TP 8
.B \-\-lash
If LASH support is compiled into the program, this option
enables it.
If LASH support is not compiled into the program, this option will note
be shown in the output of the --help option.
.TP 8
.B \-\-file \fI<filename>\fP
Load the specified MIDI file on startup.
This option does not exist.
Instead, specify the file itself as the last command-line argument.
.TP 8
.B \-m, \-\-manual-alsa-ports
Sequencer64 won't attach ALSA ports.
Instead, it will create is own set of input and output busses/ports.
.TP 8
.B \-a, \-\-auto-alsa-ports
Sequencer64 will attach ALSA ports.  Useful for overriding the
sequencer64.rc configuration file.
.TP 8
.B \-\-show-midi
Dumps incoming MIDI to screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-priority
Runs higher priority with a FIFO scheduler.
.TP 8
.B \-\-pass-sysex
Passes any incoming SYSEX messages to all outputs.
.TP 8
.B \-\-ignore \fI<number>\fP
Ignore ALSA device <number>
.TP 8
.B \-\-show-keys
Prints pressed key value.
.TP 8
.B \-\-interaction-method \fI<number>\fP
Select the mouse interaction method
0 = seq24 (the default); and 1 = fruity loops method.
The latter does not completely support all actions supported by the Seq24
interaction method, at this time.

The following options will not be shown by --help if the application is
not compiled for JACK support.

.TP 8
.B \-\-jack-transport
Sequencer64 will sync to JACK transport.
.TP 8
.B \-\-jack-master
Sequencer64 will try to be the JACK master.
.TP 8
.B \-\-jack-master-cond
JACK master will fail if there is already a JACK master.
.TP 8
.B \-\-jack-start-mode \fI<x>\fP
When Sequencer64 is synced to JACK, the following play modes are available:
	(0 = live mode)
	(1 = song mode) (default)
.TP 8
.B \-\-stats
Print statistics on the command-line while running.
.TP 8
.B \-\-jack-session-uuid \fI<uuid>\fP
Set the UUID for the JACK session.

.SH FILES
\fB$HOME\fP/sequencer64.rc stores the main configuration settings for
Sequencer64.  If it does not exist, it will be generated when Sequencer64
exits.  If it does exist, it will be rewritten with the current configuration
of Sequencer64.

\fB$HOME\fP/sequencer64.usr stores the MIDI-configuration settings and
some of the user-interface settings for Sequencer64.  If it does not
exist, it will be generated with a minimal configuration when Sequencer64
exits.  If it does exist, it will be rewritten with the current configuration
of Sequencer64.  Note that the --legacy option causes the old
configuration-file names to be used.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
Any bugs found should be reported to the upstream author and/or package 
maintainer.

.SH OTHER INFO
The current Sequencer64 project homepage is a simple git repository at the
https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer64.git URL.
Up-to-date and more comprehensive instructions can be found in the project at
the https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer26-doc.git URL.

The old Seq24 project homepage is at <http://www.filter24.org/seq24/>, and the
new one is at <https://edge.launchpad.net/seq24/>.  It is released under the
GNU GPL license.  Sequencer64 is also released under the GNU GPL license.

.SH AUTHOR
Sequencer64 was written by Chris Ahlstrom <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>.
Seq24 was written by Rob C. Buse <seq24@filter24.org> and the Seq24team.

This manual page was written by
Dana Olson <seq24@ubuntustudio.com>
with additions from
Guido Scholz <guido.scholz@bayernline.de>
and
Chris Ahlstrom <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>.

