.TH Sequencer64 "May 13 2018" "Version 0.95.0" "Sequencer64 Manual Page"

.SH NAME
Sequencer64 - Real-time live MIDI sequencer refactored from Seq24

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sequencer64
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIFILENAME\fP]
.B seq64
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIFILENAME\fP]
.B seq64cli
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIFILENAME\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fISequencer64\fP is a real-time MIDI sequencer. It was created to
provide a simple interface for editing and playing MIDI 'loops'.
It uses gtk-2 for the user interface.

.SH OPTIONS
Sequencer64 accepts the following options, plus an optional name of
a MIDI file. Note that the legacy options, which use underscores or
are missing the option hyphen, are still unofficially supported.
Note that many of the options are "sticky".  That is, they will
be saved to the "rc" configuration file.

.TP 8
.B  \-h, \-\-help
Display a list of all commandline options.

.TP 8
.B  \-V, \-\-version
Display the program version.

.TP 8
.B  \-v, \-\-verbose
Adds more output to the console, for troubleshooting.  This option
is not saved to the "rc" configuration file.

.TP 8
.B  \-H, \-\-home dir
Set the directory that holds the configuration files.  It is always
relative to the user's HOME directory.  The default is ./config/sequencer64.

.TP 8
.B  \-l, \-\-legacy
Save the MIDI file in the old Seq24 format, as unspecified
binary data, instead of as a legal MIDI track with meta events.
Also read the configuration, if provided, from the ~/.seq24rc and ~/.seq24usr
files, instead of the new ~/.config/sequencer64/sequencer64.rc and
~/.config/sequencer64/sequencer64.usr files.  The user-interface will indicate
this mode.  This mode is also used if the application is invoked as the
\fIseq24\fP command (one can create a soft link to the sequencer64 binary to
make that happen).

.TP 8
.B \-b b, \-\-bus b
Supports modifying the buss number on all tracks when a MIDI file
is read.  All tracks are loaded with this buss-number override.  This feature
is useful for testing, making it easy to map the MIDI file onto the system's
current hardware/software synthesizer setup.

.TP 8
.B \-B b, \-\-buss b
The same as the --bus option, just for oldsters to use.

.TP 8
.B \-q p, \-\-ppqn p
Supports modifying the PPQN value of Sequencer64, which is currently hardwired
to a value of 192.  This setting should allow MIDI files to play back at the
proper speed, and be written with the new PPQN value.  This feature is STILL IN
PROGRESS, and undependable.

.TP 8
.B \-L, \-\-lash
If LASH support is compiled into the program, this option
enables it.
If LASH support is not compiled into the program, this option will note
be shown in the output of the --help option.

.TP 8
.B \-n, \-\-no-lash
Disable LASH.  This option is useful if LASH is enabled in the configuration
file, but one wants it disabled.

.TP 8
.B \-\-file \fI<filename>\fP
Load the specified MIDI file on startup.
This option does not exist.
Instead, specify the file itself as the last command-line argument.

.TP 8
.B \-m, \-\-manual-alsa-ports
Sequencer64 won't attach ALSA MIDI ports, it will make "manual" (virtual) ports.
Instead, it will create is own set of virtual input and output busses/ports.
Not support in the PortMIDI build.

.TP 8
.B \-a, \-\-auto-alsa-ports
Sequencer64 will attach ALSA ports.  Useful for overriding the
sequencer64.rc configuration file when set up to use manual (virtual) ports.

.TP 8
.B \-r, \-\-reveal-alsa-ports
Do not use the 'user' definition for port names, used the actual
port names reported by ALSA.

.TP 8
.B \-r, \-\-hide-alsa-ports
Use the 'user' definition for port names (useful for overriding a
configuration).

.TP 8
.B \-A, \-\-alsa
Sequencer64 will use ALSA MIDI ports.  This option is useful to override the
configuration file, if it was set up for JACK.  This is a sticky option.

.TP 8
.B \-s, \-\-show-midi
Dumps incoming MIDI to screen.

.TP 8
.B \-k, \-\-show-keys
Prints pressed key value.

.TP 8
.B \-K, \-\-inverse
Changes the sequence editor and performance/song editor colors to an
inverse-color mode.  This mode can be considered a "night mode".

.TP 8
.B \-p, \-\-priority
Runs higher priority with a FIFO scheduler.
This option needs root access to succeed.

.TP 8
.B \-P, \-\-pass-sysex
Passes any incoming SYSEX messages to all outputs.
Not yet fully implemented.

.TP 8
.B \-i, \-\-ignore \fI<number>\fP
Ignore ALSA device <number>.

.TP 8
.B \-d, \-\-record-by-channel
Divert MIDI input by cannel into the sequences that are configured for
each channel.

.TP 8
.B \-D, \-\-legacy-record
Record all MIDI into the active sequence.  Also set by the --legacy
option.

.TP 8
.B \-x, \-\-interaction-method \fI<number>\fP
Select the mouse interaction method
0 = seq24 (the default); and 1 = fruity loops method.
The latter does not completely support all actions supported by the Seq24
interaction method, at this time.

The following options will not be shown by --help if the application is
not compiled for JACK support.

.TP 8
.B \-j, \-\-jack-transport
Sequencer64 will sync to JACK transport.  Note that JACK transport is separate
from native JACK MIDI support.

.TP 8
.B \-J, \-\-jack-master
Sequencer64 will try to be the JACK master.  This is a sticky option.

.TP 8
.B \-C, \-\-jack-master-cond
JACK master will fail if there is already a JACK master.

.TP 8
.B \-M, \-\-jack-start-mode \fI<x>\fP
When Sequencer64 is synced to JACK, the following play modes are available:
0 = live mode and 1 = song mode (the default).  Live mode means that
the musician controls the unmuting of patterns on the main window.  Song mode
means that the song layout in the "Song" window controls the playback.

.TP 8
.B \-t, \-\-jack-midi
Use native JACK MIDI.  This is a separate option from JACK Transport, and is
the default.  If JACK is not running, the application falls back to ALSA.

.TP 8
.B \-N, \-\-no-jack-midi
Use ALSA MIDI, even with JACK Transport.  See the -A option.

.TP 8
.B \-S, \-\-stats
Print statistics on the command-line while running, if built for
showing statistics.

.TP 8
.B \-u, \-\-user-save
Save the "user" configuration file after exiting.  Normally, it is saved
only if it does not exist, so as not to make certain command-line "user"
options (such as --bus) permanent.  (Perhaps the same should be true of the
"rc" configuration options.)

.TP 8
.B \-f, \-\-rc filename
Use a different "rc" configuration file.  It must be a file in the user's
$HOME/.config/sequencer64 directory or the directory specified by the --home
option.  Not supported by the --legacy mode.  The '.rc' extension is added if
no extension is present in the filename.

.TP 8
.B \-F, \-\-usr filename
Use a different "usr" configuration file.  It must be a file in the user's
$HOME/.config/sequencer64 directory or the directory specified by the --home
option.  Not supported by the --legacy mode.  The '.usr' extension is added if
no extension is present in the filename.
.TP 8
.B \-c, \-\-config basename
Use a different configuration file base name for the 'rc' and 'usr' files.
For example, one can specify a full configuration for "testing", for "jack",
or for "alsa".
.TP 8
.B \-o, \-\-option opvalue
Provides additional options, including the no-GUI version of
Sequencer64.  Here are the opvalues supported:

daemonize     Makes this application fork to the background.
no-daemonize  Makes this application not fork to the background.
log=filename  Redirect console output to a log file in the
              --home directory [$HOME/.config/sequencer64].
wid=3x2,f     Sets up for multiple main windows, to show
              multiple sets in a grid of patterns panels.
sets=RxC      Modifies the rows and columns in a set from the
              default of 4x8.  Supported values of R are 4 to 8,
              and C can range from 8 to 12. If not 4x8, seq64 is
              in 'variset' mode. Affects mute groups, too.
scale=x       Scales the main window size, from 0.5 to 3.0.
              A value of 0.75 is useful when using
              "-o wid=2x2 -o sets=8x8", though the pattern
              labelling is mildly distorted.

.SH FILES
\fB$HOME\fP/.config/sequencer64.rc stores the main configuration settings for
Sequencer64.  If it does not exist, it will be generated when Sequencer64
exits.  If it does exist, it will be rewritten with the current configuration
of Sequencer64.  Many, or most, of the command-line options are "sticky", in
that they will be written to the configuration file.

\fB$HOME\fP/.config/sequencer64.usr stores the MIDI-configuration settings and
some of the user-interface settings for Sequencer64.  If it does not
exist, it will be generated with a minimal configuration when Sequencer64
exits.  If it does exist, it will be rewritten with the current configuration
of Sequencer64.  Note that the --legacy option causes the old
configuration-file names to be used.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
Any bugs found should be reported to the upstream author and/or package 
maintainer.

.SH OTHER INFO
--ppqn works, but be aware that it may have bugs.  If a MIDI file is re-saved,
--ppqn is also saved.  If no JACK/LASH options are shown above, they were
disabled in the build configuration.

The current Sequencer64 project homepage is a simple git repository at the
https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer64.git URL.
Up-to-date and more comprehensive instructions can be found in the project at
the https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer64-doc.git URL.

The old Seq24 project homepage is at <http://www.filter24.org/seq24/>, and the
new one is at <https://edge.launchpad.net/seq24/>.  It is released under the
GNU GPL license.  Sequencer64 is also released under the GNU GPL license.

.SH AUTHOR
Sequencer64 was written by Chris Ahlstrom <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>, with
contributions from Tim Deagan <tim@deagan.net>, Daniel Appelt
<daniel.appelt@gmail.com>, 0rel, layk, and many others.
Seq24 was originally written by Rob C. Buse <seq24@filter24.org> and the
Seq24 team at LaunchPad.

This manual page was written by
Dana Olson <seq24@ubuntustudio.com>
with additions from
Guido Scholz <guido.scholz@bayernline.de>
and
Chris Ahlstrom <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>.

